EN proof Enabling SSO connections (#3567)
ovh/docs: pages/account/customer/ovhcloud-account-connect-saml-sso/guide.en-us.md

---
title: Enabling SSO connections with your OVHcloud account
slug: connect-saml-sso
excerpt: "Find out how to link your ADFS to your OVHcloud account using SAML 2.0"
Section: 'Advanced use'
order: 1
---

**Last updated 13th October 2022**

## Objective

> You can use **single sign-on** (SSO) to connect to your OVHcloud account. To enable these connections, your account and your Active Directory Federation Service (ADFS) have to be configured using Assertion Markup Language (SAML) authentications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use **single sign-on** (SSO) to connect to your OVHcloud account. To enable these connections, your account and your Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS) have to be configured using Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) authentications.
```

![ADFS relying party trusts menu](images/adfs_relying_party_trusts_menu.png){.thumbnail}

Select `Claims aware`{.action} and confirm with the `Start`{.action} button.

![ADFS add relying party trust step 1](images/adfs_add_relying_party_trust_1.png){.thumbnail}

> Here you can enter the relying party information manually or import it from a file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can enter the relying party information manually or import it from a metadata file.
```

Enter a rule name, then define your mapping.

Select "Active Directory" as "Attribute store".

> [!primary]
>
> The following settings can be configured freely, but there are some standards to respect to make sure Active Directory LDAP data can be read correctly by most service providers. You can refer to the image below as an example.

> >
> > ![ADFS relying party trust mapping step 5](images/adfs_relying_party_trusts_mapping_5.png){.thumbnail}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is my mistake, this image is supposed to be shown below. Sorry for that.

> > The following settings can be configured freely, but there are some standards to respect to make sure Active Directory LDAP data can be read correctly by most service providers. You can refer to the image below as an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The following settings can be configured freely in order for the Active Directory LDAP data to be read correctly by the service provider. You can refer to the image below as an example.
```
After thinking about it I prefer to not talk about "standard" here.

When you are done, click the `Finish`{.action} button.

> ![ADFS relying party trust mapping step 4](images/adfs_relying_party_trusts_mapping_4.png){.thumbnail}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![ADFS relying party trust mapping step 4](images/adfs_relying_party_trusts_mapping_4.png){.thumbnail}

![ADFS relying party trust mapping step 5](images/adfs_relying_party_trusts_mapping_5.png){.thumbnail}
```

See previous comment

![OVHcloud profile menu](images/ovhcloud_profile_menu.png){.thumbnail}

Click on the `SSO Login`{.action} button.

![OVHcloud connect SSO step 1](images/ovhcloud_user_management_connect_sso_1.png){.thumbnail}

Fill in the XML metadata of your ADFS. The "Group Attribute Name" is optional in this case. Click on `Confirm`{.action}.

![OVHcloud connect SSO step 2](images/ovhcloud_user_management_connect_sso_2.png){.thumbnail}

You should now see your ADFS as identity provider, as well as the default groups.

![OVHcloud connect SSO step 3](images/ovhcloud_user_management_connect_sso_3.png){.thumbnail}

Click the link below `SSO service URL` to view more information on it.

![OVHcloud connect SSO step 4](images/ovhcloud_user_management_connect_sso_4.png){.thumbnail}

![OVHcloud connect SSO step 5](images/ovhcloud_user_management_connect_sso_5.png){.thumbnail}

The `...`{.action} button enables you to update or delete the SSO, and to see details.

![OVHcloud connect SSO step 6](images/ovhcloud_user_management_connect_sso_6.png){.thumbnail}

The trust of your ADFS as identity provider is thus established but you still have to add groups to your OVHcloud account.

> [!warning]

> > If you try to connect at this stage via SSO, you will probably receive a "Not in valid groups" error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you try to connect at this stage via SSO, you will probably receive a `Not in valid groups` error message.
```

</AttributeStatement>
```

This means that you need to add the `manager@<my-domain>.com` group to your OVHcloud account, attaching a role to it. Otherwise, your OVHcloud account wouldn't know what is the user allowed to do.

Add it by clicking on the `Declare a group`{.action} button and filling in the fields:

![ADFS user management groups](images/ovhcloud_user_management_groups_1.png){.thumbnail}

![ADFS user management groups](images/ovhcloud_user_management_groups_2.png){.thumbnail}

You can then check that the group is added to your OVHcloud account in the `Groups` section:

![ADFS user management groups](images/ovhcloud_user_management_groups_3.png){.thumbnail}

> When you connect with the Active Directory user "johndoe" now, your OVHcloud account will recognise that the user has the "REGULAR" role, specified by its group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you connect with the Active Directory user "johndoe" now, your OVHcloud account will recognize that the user has the "REGULAR" role, specified by its group.
```
